The third part of the solution to the Day six project will be full of functions.
Fundamentally, we are going to create four basic functions that are going to be called from several
places in our code.
And these are the functions that allow us to show and choose categories and recipes.
We are so close and the program is going to be great.
So let's go over to Pie Charm and get to work.
And now let's start from where we left off.
We already have our first two functions and now we're going to be in writing the show categories function,
which is one of the first ones we need in our tree.
So we're going to delete here and we're going to create a show categories function.
Does this ask us for any parameter?
Of course.
We're going to need a path to know what categories are and for what folders are in a given path.
Let's start by showing the user some indicator of what we have here.
I'm going to say categories.
Colon For the internal use of our function, we're going to create a variable called categories path,
which contains the path that is formed with the path that we are passing to it.
In this function.
We're also going to need a list that feeds from all the categories that we find in the loop that we're
going to do to be able to return a list with all those folder names.
Then categories list will initialize empty.
And also we're going to need a counter to show those folders with the number to the side.
That's to be able to make that number grow after each record it makes.
We're going to take it with a counter that begins in one, and now comes the loop, which is going to
indicate that for each folder that it finds inside categories, path is going to apply a method called
i t e r d I entered.
I hope you've been able to find this method by yourself.
It was one of the methods I was asking you to find by searching in the documentation all through the
options.
So we used it today because what we needed here is a method that allows us to iterate inside the directory
to go through each of its elements, in this case by each one of its folders.
So we're going to take the name of those folders and we're going to store them in a variable, but we
need a string of the name of those folders.
So it's going to be equal to string of folder.
But remember, that folder is actually a path.
So let's just take the name property.
So remember that we have this function here to look for the name.
And we did see that in this course.
Then in each loop, once we have the name of the folder, we're going to show it.
We're going to show a number and the folder.
So we're going to build it with a string literal that first says the number of the folder it is and
we do this with the counter and then it is going to have in a call the name of the folder, but it will
actually be the string with the name of the folder.
We do this so that user can see and choose from all the folders that there are at the same time.
In addition to showing it, we're going to put it inside our list.
So categories list is going to feed with append of a new element which will be folder, not the string
of folder, but the folder that has the path data to get there.
Counter will add a unit in each iteration of the loop, and finally it will exit the loop.
And when it has everything ready, it will return to the code so that it can operate with it.
And the list of all the categories that has received.
This function is ready.
Now we can show categories and therefore we can show here show categories, and we can pass the call
directly and we can put here that what it needs as path is going to be my path.
So this function is going to return a list with all the categories.
So we are going to store it inside a variable called my categories.
Then when it is executed, it is going to return my categories.
So we're going to copy this same line every time we need to show categories.
Not here.
Here.
Yes, here as well.
And ready.
Then we already have a function.
This is going to be in charge of doing whatever we ask inside our tree.
We're going to create one more function which this time is going to be choose category.
We already have the categories inside the recipes folder and we're going to use it inside the new function
called Choose Category for the user to choose which category of meals they want.
So does this need a parameter?
Yes, a list.
A list of the categories from which they choose.
Since the user is going to see all the categories and choose one of them, we need to make sure that
they choose an appropriate value and not a value that can't be seen.
Then we're going to have to make another wire loop.
And before the while loop a variable that is incorrect value to make sure that it enters the loop in
the first round and then only enters if the value is incorrect.
The loop is going to be a while that checks that not correct choice is numeric.
And it will also check a second condition with or to see if the integer of the correct choice is not
within a range, but a range that goes from where?
Well, now we don't know how many folders we're going to have within the categories because the user
can keep creating and deleting categories.
We know this will range from one, but we don't know up to where.
So the second value is going to be whatever the length of the list we've passed.
But remember that this list will give numbers ranging from one onwards.
But we need to add one to it because the value that closes the range is not included.
So we will always add one more value.
And now we have this while in which we can verify that at least one of the two conditions is fulfilled.
So we're able to ask the user, through correct choice, their input.
So what are we going to ask in the input with quotation marks and a line break so that it has a space?
We say choose a category and we put a colon and a space and we can make it a return that we'll send
back to the user an element of the list, the elements that the user has chosen.
So let's put the square brackets to choose an index.
So what index do we choose?
Of course, the one pasta is incorrect choice, but the user is going to give us a string, so we have
to cast it inside an integer to correct choice.
But since the indexes go from zero and our numbers go from one, we need to subtract a unit from it
to get the correct index that has to be passed to the code to continue working.
We already have the Chus category ready.
Now we can replace this call here with a real one that says Choose category.
And this function is going to ask us to pass it a list.
And the list is going to be my categories.
The one we have passed it with the previous function.
And this function is going to return an element of a list that we're going to store in my category variable.
There's going to be the chosen category and it is going to be stored there.
Now I can also copy this line, which will be exactly the same in menu, option to menu option four
and menu option five.
And now look how it's all coming together.
So I propose that we move forward, at least until we complete option one of the menu here, which asks
us to show the recipes we need to create a function that shows us all the recipes.
This is going to need the information of the category we have chosen.
We're going to call it show recipes.
And what is it going to need to show me the recipes?
Well, a path that contains the information of where the recipes that I have to show are first.
This will need to print a message telling the user that these are the recipes.
Colon Then we'll need to create a path like we did before.
This path recipes is going to be equal to the path that we pass to it.
Then we're going to create an empty list with the recipes recipes list that does not have anything so
that later, for all the recipes that it finds, it completes the list and returns it.
So we're going to create a counter that keeps track so that we can show a number before each of the
recipes.
And now comes the for loop so that for each recipe found in recipe path, which is the path that we
have built above, we apply apply the glob method to find all the files that have text as ending and
colon.
These are going to be the recipes that it finds inside the folder that we have passed to it.
We're going to transform the name into a variable called Recipe Star to know that it is the name in
string format of the recipe.
Then it will cast recipe point name.
It is only going to store the name there and not the whole path.
And there we print to show the user in a very similar way to what we did before.
An index that will be built with a call to the counter which will have one more value in each iteration,
and next to it with a hyphen, will type the name of the recipe that we have in the recipe string.
So this will allow us to show everything we have.
Then with append, we're going to add to recipes list, which is our empty list.
Each of the recipes that we find here, we do not put recipe string, but the variable recipe with all
the data to the counter, we ask it to increase one more number to each iteration and we can exit the
loop and return to the code.
The recipe list, that is to say a list with all the recipes that has shown so that we can then make
the choice of the recipes we have.
The show recipes function ready so we can replace this here with the corresponding function call show
recipes, which asks us for a path.
And that path is going to be the one that we've built in my category.
And as this is going to return a list, we're going to store it in a list called My Recipes that will
be equal to what this function returns.
And this is another call that we can copy and paste in every place.
We have to show recipes, and this would be here in menu four where we can delete recipes.
I hope you can follow me.
This clearly makes sense.
So the only difficulty sometimes is to understand it.
So look how a code is being fed.
And we're getting very close.
We're now going to create a function that allows us to choose between the recipes that we have just
shown.
It's very similar to what we've done before with show categories.
Let's put here choose recipes where we're going to ask for a list of the recipes from which to choose.
So we're going to make an incorrect choice to make sure that the loop repeats over and over again.
So recipe choice is going to be equal to X to make sure it's wrong.
And here comes the while loop, which is going to make sure that as long as it doesn't happen, that
recipe choice is numeric or that the integer of recipe choice is not in the range that goes as before
from one to the length of the list, but adding one to the latter to make sure that the last number
is also included.
Colon and inside the loop.
Let's make sure the recipe choice is equal.
But what the user enters when we ask with a line break, choose a recipe.
So here the user will put a number which has to meet these conditions that we've passed.
Otherwise, the user will be asked again and again until they provide a valid number so that we can
send back to the code an element of the list that we're going to put it with the square brackets to
look for an index.
And what are we going to put here?
The same as before, an integer of whatever the user has chosen.
Recipe choice minus one so that it is equated with the index numbers.
Since we have choose recipes, we are going to call the Choose Recipes function to which we have to
pass a list, which is the list of my recipes.
And this is going to return an index, an element of a list that should be saved in my recipe in singular.
And see how everything is concatenated together.
If we have another call to choose recipes, which I think we have here.
Yes, here's another one.
We're going to replace it with the same line of code.
I would say that we already have the primary functions, but we still need the specific functions,
the ones that are used to read a recipe to create a new one and to delete it, and so on.
And we're going to finish all of this in the next video where I promise you that you'll get the resolution
of this very interesting program that we're creating.
So I'll see you in the next video.